# Fingerprinting methods:
## Browser/online fingerprinting:
* Using java script
* Collect data about user's web browser and device
* Model of device, softwares and drivers installed, geolocation etc
### Canvas fingerprinting:
* Accuarte and not too processing intensive
* uses the HTML5 canvas element to identify variances in a user’s GPU, graphics drivers, or graphics card.
* First, the script draws an image, often overlaid with text.
* Then, the script captures how the user’s web browser has rendered the image and text.
* Naturally, every device with different hardware and drivers will render the image slightly differently, distorting its color and shape
* A hash is then computed using the rendered image’s data, which serves as the canvas fingerprint.
### WebGL Fingerprinting
* Very similar to Canvas

### Media device fingerprinting:
* uncovers a list of all the connected media devices and their respective IDs on a user’s laptop or PC
* Media device fingerprinting is not widely used in fingerprinting functions (due to permissions)
### Audio fingerprinting
* checks how their devices play sound
* The browser vendor and version used impacts minute differences in sound waves generated by a digital oscillator, and differences in CPU architecture.

## DNS fingerprinting:
* Most of the works on all the DNS records of devices not the ones for specific authoritative DNS server
* [Passive OS Fingerprinting by DNS Traffic Analysis](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6531762)
* Determining OS and Applications by DNS Traffic Analysis

## HTTPS SSL/TLS
* https://cyberleninka.org/article/n/577437/viewer



## TCP/IP fingerprint:
* Initial packet size (16 bits)
* Initial TTL (8 bits)
* Window size (16 bits)
* Max segment size (16 bits)
* Window scaling value (8 bits)
* "don't fragment" flag (1 bit)
* "sackOK" flag (1 bit)
* "nop" flag (1 bit)

* These values may be combined to form a 67-bit signature, or fingerprint, for the target machine.
* Just inspecting the Initial TTL and window size fields is often enough in order to successfully identify an operating system, which eases the task of performing manual OS fingerprinting
  
### HTTP2 fingerprinting:
1. SETTINGS frame
2. WINDOW_UPDATE frame
3. PRIORITY frame 
*  the HTTP/2 SETTINGS frame is sent from both client to server and server to client during the 
initial connection phase. The frame is defined by RFC 7540
* The WINDOW_UPDATE frame is sent in order to notify the other endpoint of an increment in the window size. It is 
defined by RFC 7540
* The PRIORITY frame is sent in order to set a priority of any given stream.
* 